import BlogLayout from "src/components/BlogLayout";

export const meta = {
  title: "Rising from the ashes",
  author: "Saumya Dalal",
  hidden: false,
  publishedAt: "2023-12-01",
  banner: `A reflection on this past year - living intentionally and free`,
  categories: ["Fun", "Life"],
};

Newton's first law applies to human behavior just much as it does to moving
objects: it is always easier to just keep doing what you're already doing.
Adjusting your behavior requires a deliberate application of willpower.

So I've decided to set some new years resolutions. The objective of this post is
to serve as a written record, to create a bit of accountability and increase the
chances of achieving these targets.

<br />

## 1. Focus on health and fitness

Over the last few years, my fitness has gradually declined. While I'm healthy
overall and my BMI is normal, I'm no longer able to run, lift and swim like I
used to just a few years ago. My mind rationalizes this decline with all sorts
of mental gymnastics but really there is no excuse. This year, the most
important goal I have set is to focus on my fitness. I know, I know -
**everyone** says this at the start of the new year.

The first aspect of this goal is to enforce a daily morning exercise routine for
at least 45 minutes. The second part is to sustain my juul-free lifestyle for
this entire year and beyond. At the time of writing, I've been working out daily
for 14 days and been nicotine free for 121 days. It's also time I gradually
adjust my diet and routine. I'm going to sleep by 12 AM and be up by 7:00. I'm
resolving to cook something everyday and add more vegetables and protein into my
meals. Eliminating my weakness for junk food will be very important - ice cream,
potato chips and other such items will be an occasional treat.

## 2. Invest in relationships

As an introvert, it's hard for me to connect with new people and make friends.
While I seem gregarious enough at gatherings, I rarely go out of my way to
attend or plan them which makes meeting new people difficult. This year, I will
make a habit of meeting new people both online and offline. My strategy will be
to meet more people through Lunchclub, meetups and in general saying "yes" to
more things. I will also be more open with new people about things I tend not to
share.

## 3. Read and write more

When I was in highschool I would devour books at a fairly rapid clip, around 2 a
month. As I grew older and busier, physical books were replaced by online
articles, podcasts and audiobooks. Over the last 4 years especially, my mental
diet has feels like it is full of empty calories. I tend to gloss over content
and rarely dive deep into topics like I used to. This year, I'm going to change
all that by using my Kindle for at least an hour a day and completing at least
one book a month.

I also want to write more than I currently do. Sowell said "the only way to
become a good writer is to keep being a bad writer and improving slowly". When
it comes to writing things down, I often fall into a vicious cycle of
procrastination, perfection and paralysis. This year, I plan to overcome it by
writing a daily log (for myself), a monthly book report and at least one post
every week until writing becomes second nature again.

## 4. Build something cool and sell it

I've always enjoyed building things but I usually fail to complete them. My
intrinsic nature as an engineer is to keep tinkering for the sake of it even
when it stops making practical sense to do so. Over the last few years I have
trained myself to take a more holistic viewpoint and balance my desire for
perfect code with just getting things done. Done is better than perfect and this
year my goal will be to internalize this mantra as I complete and publish the
multitude of half-baked projects lying in private GitHub repos. The goal here
will be to revamp, polish and launch some of my legacy code within 3-7 days.

This is also the year where I will build a commercially viable product and go to
market. While I have cofounded or co-created other ventures before, none have
attained the product-market fit necessary for long term success. This year, I'm
going to give myself a solid 6 months to build and launch something others are
willing to pay for. The only measure of success will be revenue and number of
customers. This will be a forcing function that gets me out of my comfort zone
and helps me to take stock of how I spend my time.

## 5. Start a garden, pursue my hobbies and volunteer

I find it difficult to keep a pet given all the traveling I do so I've decided
the next best thing is to start a garden. I have some space on the roof of my
building so I'm going to work on a small garden as occupational therapy. I'll
post regular pictures of my plants once I've potted them when the weather
improves.

I'm going to restart my old hobbies; I will take photos or make origami at least
once a week and post the results on this blog. Also, it's really been too long
since I gave my time to helping others so I'm going to find an interesting
volunteer opportunity and give it at least 2-3 hours every other week.

## Conclusion

That's it for now - health, relationships, reading, writing, work, hobbies,
making oxygen...it won't be easy but as Paul Graham once put it best - boring
progress makes for exceptional results.

export default ({ children }) => (
  <BlogLayout meta={meta}>{children}</BlogLayout>
);
